vile victorians
ladies and gentlemen.
Well,
gentlemen,
certainly this is no place for a lady.
It gives me great pleasure and no small amount of relief to declare this
the first ever flushing public lavatory open.
Well,
I've got it now.
OK?
Might wanna leave it five minutes.
Oh,
my goodness.
A year previously,
in 1851 temporary toilets were exhibited at the Great exhibition in
London's Hyde Park,
and visitors were charged a penny to use them.
And that is thought to be the origin of the phrase to spend a penny.
And this is the origin of the Nobel Peace Prize.
Hm.
Interesting.
But that's not what's supposed to happen.
Darling.
I don't want to worry you or anything,
but I think you might be dead.
I don't think so,
darling.
Well,
this newspaper seems to think you aren't.
It's always been very reliable in the past.
Look,
Doctor Alfred Nobel,
the Swedish chemist and inventor of dynamite,
died yesterday in the French resort of Cannes.
Let me see that.
Good grief.
It does say I'm dead.
Look what they're calling me here.
The Merchant of Death says here Doctor Alfred Nobel became rich by finding
ways to kill more people even faster than ever before.
Honestly,
by reading this,
you'd think that just because I'd invented dynamite I am personally responsible for the death of thousands of
people.
I mean,
honestly,
have you ever heard such nonsense?
I said,
have you ever heard?
That's rubbish.
Sophie,
if you have something to say Well,
you you did invent what is,
at this point in time,
the most powerful explosive on earth.
And it has gone on to kill thousands and thousands of people.
What's your point?
All I'm saying is you have to accept when people hear the word nobel,
they're always going to think of dynamite.
I knew I should have called it Nobel's safety powder.
I mean,
do you really think that when I actually do go?
This is how I'll be remembered?
Oh,
sweetheart.
Of course it is.
My fury cheeked little deaf merchant.
Well,
not if I can help it.
I shall re invent my own image.
What?
I shall use my massive fortune to establish a special prize,
one that rewards positive human endeavours in the pursuit of peace.
So that when I do die,
I won't just be linked to explosives.
and I,
Alfred Nobel will call this special peace prize
prize.
I might,
darling,
why don't you call it the Nobel Peace Prize?
I love you,
darling,
but you have absolutely no idea.
When it comes to marketing,
take certainly roofless
rollers.